Hello welcome to the video.
So for users of Linux you're going to have to build Unreal Engine from scratch in order to use it on
your platform because there is no Epic Games Launcher at the time of recording and you cannot use that
to download a pre-built version of the engine.
If you're on Mac or PC you may want to skip this video altogether or go through it at fast pace just
to see what you can pick up.
The only reason you'd want to build the engine from source on Mac or PC is if you have a specific
reason. For instance you're making a modification to the engine and you want to rebuild it from source.
So if you have an interest.
Watch it.
Otherwise if you're not on Linux just skip on to the next video.
So Linux users how do we do this.
Well I've linked you in the resources to the article about building Unreal Engine from source.
I'm going to take you through most of it step by step.
But the first thing it says is you need to download the Unreal Engine source code.
So let's click through to that.
The way that we're going to do that is as follows:
You have to be an Unreal Engine subscriber so make
sure you've got an Epic Games account just like the Mac and PC people we need an Epic Games or Unreal
Engine account. Number two, make sure that you have a GitHub account and then you're gonna need to link
those two together.
All right.
Now the way you link them together when we go to https://github.com/EpicGames what you will
find is if you're not a member of the Epic Games repository anybody can become a member and you'll see
how in a minute if you're not a member you're going to see there's something like sign up and third
party there may be other things when you get to it.
But the point is unless you see Unreal Engine in one of the repositories in this list you're not signed
up for Epic Games yet.
So what you need to do is follow the instructions under sign up.
If you click it to sign up here's the URL: github.com/EpicGames/Signup
.
Now I'll tell you what to do or at least I'll give you yet another link to the final instructions you
need over on the Unreal Engine website.
I'll give you these links in the resources to make your life easier.
It tells you what you need to do.
You need to go to GitHub, make sure you've got an account.
You need to go to Unreal Engine.com and then within Unreal Engine it'll tell you how to get to the
bits you need to link those two accounts together.
All right so I'm going to leave that to you because the instructions will change a bit over time and
it's really not difficult it's just a question of linking those two accounts from within your Unreal
Engine account.
Once you have done that the proof of the pudding will be when you sign in to GitHub then things will
look different.
I'm gonna go ahead and sign in and be back with you in a second.
You may of course need to enter a two factor authentication code when you're logging in to get up.
Probably worth turning that on on you'll get an account.
Anyway the point is that once you are a member of the Epic Games repository and signed in to your
GitHub account, you're welcome to follow me on GitHub by the way github.com/BenTristem
then you will see this UnrealEngine.
So this is the repository we are going to need if we click into that.
Here it is.
This is the Unreal Engine.
Now we're actually going to be taking a specific version of Unreal for this course which is 4.22
.
But I'll show you in a moment on the terminal how we get to that and how we do it.
All right.
So let's go and look at the steps involved.
We want you to build Unreal Engine from source.
The first thing before we go any further is you need to do this.
You need to install "g++" which is the compiler that we're going to need on Linux, "gi"t which is
for access to git and GitHub and "make" which is going to be the thing that you're going to use to
actually build the Unreal Engine.
And we're going to put in "-y" on the end to say "say yes when we're prompted."
So this command "sudo apt install g++ make -y" is going to install everything and
then we're going to run a command like this who's just gonna say that we're going to clone a single branch
which is talking about the fact we're taking the 4.22 engine.
So this is weird syntax but "--single-branch --branch" etc..
All right.
And I'll put this exact syntax in the lecture description that you can copy if you wish.
And then we're going to provide it with either an HTTPS version of the repository I'll show you that
in a minute back at GitHub or we're going to use something called SSH.
I'm going to show you HTTPS because it's a bit simpler.
Then you're gonna go to GitHub and create a personal access token. Then you're going to go into your
Unreal Engine directory once this is pulled all this stuff down into into your onto your machine.
Then you going to run a few other scripts etc..
Okay so there's a whole bunch of steps.
Let's take them one step at a time let's get this one done
"sudo apt install g++ git make -y" I'll
do that with you now because it's going to take a few moments then we can press on with all
this GitHub stuff and then I'll leave you to complete the challenge all right.
So what we need to do is open up a terminal.
You may already have some of these things installed but we're gonna assume that you haven't.
Okay.
So we're gonna "sudo" which means "super user do".
I'm just gonna widen the terminal a little bit for you so you can see things.
Super User do apt which is a package manager install which is going to install things it's gonna install
a list of things.
g++ the compiler git which is as I said where you're going.
The way that you're going to get the code from Unreal Engine and make which is going to you to build
the Unreal Engine when it's down and we're just gonna say yes to the prompt that comes up.
OK.
If you don't want to say yes if that doesn't feel safe to you just leave it off.
Doesn't matter.
You put in your password for your machine and then at some point if you don't have that "-y" you
may just be prompted to hit yes or return.
Right.
Happens to have worked without the "-y" so that's great.
So all those prerequisites are now installed we now have the things that we need.
So the next line we're gonna need to do is we need to do a git clone which is going to take what's on
that GitHub website and put it down to our computer.
We're going to say single-branch you've got to type it exactly as I am otherwise it won't work.
"git clone --single-branch".
Okay.
And then another space --branch where you specify the branch which is 4.22.
Now we're gonna need to go and copy the link.
So when you're at "github.com/EpicGames/UnrealEngine"
It doesn't matter what you've got selected here on the branch on the left because we're overriding that
in the terminal.
It doesn't change the URL in any way.
We want to take either the URL at the top or from clone or download.
We have a choice between HTTPS which is the same as the URL at the top basically.
Or SSH, SSH if you know about that,
go ahead and set it up. We actually have a separate course on GitHub and git altogether it's called
"Git smart."
You can check that out from us for us and that takes you a lot more room into a lot more detail about git
.
But for this course we're just trying to download the engine in the simplest ways, so use HTTPS.
In this particular case.
All right.
So you copy either the URL or this link here under the HTTPS.
Either way they're roughly the same.
And then when we go back to our terminal that's what we want to paste in here.
So we've got "git clone --single-branch --branch 4.22 https://github.com/EpicGames/Unreal...
Engine" and maybe ".git" on the end; doesn't actually matter whether you put the ".git" on the end or
not.
Okay.
When we try and do that the first time round it's gonna ask for our username and our password for
GitHub
Now you can specify your username and password but if you've got two factor authentication turned on
on GitHub you're not gonna be to do that from the terminal.
So I'm gonna show you one more step would you step three of your challenge and then I'll leave you to
see if you can do the rest on your own and show you my solution after the challenge.
So step three says that we need to create a personal access token with repo access and this personal
access token is going to replace our password  with a one time password and also mean that
if we do have two factor authentication on that we can bypass it on the terminal.
All right.
So what you want to do on GitHub is go to settings and then developer settings which is on the
bottom left hand side and then personal access tokens.
And what we gonna do is generate a new token I'm gonna call it something like Linux Unreal and what
we need is repo access.
So just click repo and all the sub things will come up.
All right.
So something like that once you've generated that token it's only going to give it to you once
so do make sure you copy it to the clipboard and then this token is what we're gonna use as a one time one
off password just for this particular access.
All right.
So I put in my GitHub username  and then I'm gonna put in the personal access token I'm gonna
paste that in and what that will do hopefully.
Have you got it all.
All right.
Is this will start happening you will start receiving objects from Epic Games' GitHub. it will take
a little while to do this depending on the speed of your broadband. There's three ways you can make this work
number one is to use SSH access but you're gonna have to figure it out for yourself.
Another is that you just put your GitHub username and password in we're asked here but you only two
factor authentication turned off
on GitHub. if you want to keep your two factor authentication on and not mess around with SSH then you're
going to need to use this personal access tokens method.
All right.
So I'm going to let this download and I'll be back with you when that has finished OK.
Welcome back.
So so far hopefully you've done the following steps.
We've installed on prerequisites we've cloned the Unreal Engine and we used a personal access token
to allow that to get access.
So just clear the screen do a "ls" and you'll see that one of the new things we have here is UnrealEngine
.
Basically that was the entire point of that stuff was to get that directory let's change into it
"cd UnrealEngine" I'm using tab to complete that.
All right.
So that is that stage now what we need to do next from within the Unreal Engine is run "./Setup.sh"
"./Setup.sh"
All of this is in Epic Games is documentation.
I'm just taking you through it for simplicity.
So the next step is to run "./Setup.sh" once this starts happening it starts updating dependencies
etc then you're good to go on this stage.
So you will have then "cd"d into "UnrealEngine" and run "./Setup.sh".
Now if it asks you to register Unreal file types during this process then just go ahead and do that.
That will be fine.
All right so I'm going to let Setup.sh run and I'll be back with you when that's finished.
It takes several minutes. All right welcome back.
So when that process is finished you should end up with something like this "SUCCESS".
Hopefully you do if you don't go to the community and ask for some help.
And then we'd need to run another command.
Make sure that you're in the Unreal Engine directory and then we gonna run another command that's very
similar and much quicker which is "./GenerateProjectFiles.sh"
another shell scripts. So two that you need to run "Setup" and then "GenerateProjectFiles".
If you have any issues hop into the community, I'll put you a link to a dedicated forum thread where
you can help each other with any issues with Linux let's go back to the challenge slide so we can see
the overview we're down here now generate project files much faster than the previous step.
As I look ahead while we wait for that to finish we're gonna be running "make" next.
And this is one of the dependencies we installed at the top here and this is actually going to compile
and build the Unreal Engine.
It's going to take a long time as I said earlier you're going to probably want to have about 100 gigabytes
of free disk space for this job.
Mine took over 70.
You can add space -j space and then a number which sets how many jobs or threads or cores
strictly I think it's jobs that this uses which may or may not speed it up but by default I believe
at the time of recording make will use as many cores as it can.
So unless you have a reason I wouldn't bother just type wouldn't make.
All right so let's go back into Linux see how it's doing it's doing great.
Right.
So it's finished.
This is what you want to see at the end of the Generate project files.
Then you want to type "make".
Now once you've typed make something like this will start happening.
And once you get to a list of you know "9/30" type of thing then you're on your way.
This is going to take hours.
I suggest you write down the time of day right now if you've started your make so that you can work
out how long this thing's actually taking to compile so you can compare notes in the community.
That'll be the last step of the challenge if you like.
By the way don't be lulled into a false sense of security just when you think it's nearly finished
like it's 12/30  the 30 or changed at 50 and then to 600 or whatever.
So just bear with it.
Should get there in the end as long as you've got enough disk space and plenty of RAM.
I would have at least 8GB, preferably 16 of RAM then this will eventually complete and I'll be interested
to hear how long it takes for you.
So I'll come back to you when this make is finished on my machine.
Hi welcome back.
So I have unfortunately cleared my terminal but you'll know that the make has finished because it will say
it's completed successfully and it will have taken several hours and you'll have a new directory.
So let's change into this new director.
We can change the engine by the way when you're at the end of light engine you can push tab a second
time to preview what else you've got.
So I've typed "cd Engine" and then TAB TAB so see the engine and then working for binaries and
then what is it under there.
On TAB TAB to see that it's Linux and that's where we want to be we want to be in "Unreal Engine...
"UnrealEngine/Engine/Binaries/Linux" and then to open the editor at last.
We're pretty much there it's "./UE4Editor" let's go for that and see what happens does
a bunch of stuff and that is the editor opening now on my machine.
It's not going to open because this is a virtual machine and I don't have a sufficiently high version
of OpenGL but it will work on other machines other people have verified that. There is a point about
this with regards to compatibility which I'll just show you on a slide here.
So we've done "make" we've changed into the "Binaries/Linux" at a place we might want make yourself a shortcut
on your desktop however.
Linux people do that hopefully you and celebrate if the editor opened if you get a Vulcan warning then
please update your graphics drivers first before trying anything else make sure you're fully up to date
and if it still doesn't work try doing "./UE4Editor -opengl" to switch Unreal
into OpenGL there's a useful tip for you.
All right.
And as I said earlier write down the start time and share the build time and your machine specs in the
community forum post I've linked against this lecture.
That'd be great fun to compare and show off and say hey my machine only took eight seconds to compile
it and somebody else said well known to you in six days so it just be quite fun to see how the specs
vary and determine the build time big and take a breath.
That was a lot of work but it's not so bad once you've done it.
It's done for life if you like and are pretty useful and you can feel that sense of Linux Master Race
flow flowing through your veins knowing that you've built this engine from source yourself in the in
the right way if you like.
Awesome.
So thanks for watching and I will see you shortly.